---
layout: doc
title: Saving - changeset comment & Task Manager finishing a square - iD editor
permalink: /en/hot-tips/saving/
lang: en
category: hot-tips
---

Saving - changeset comment & Task Manager finishing a square - iD editor
============

- TOC
{:toc}

<!-- > This guide may be downloaded as [tm_starting_en.odt](/files/tm_starting_en.odt) or [tm_starting_en.pdf](/files/tm_starting_en.pdf)  
> Created 2016-10-30  -->

iD editor - saving
------------------

### The Essentials of saving using the iD editor ###

![saving]

> This image ![keymon]{: height="24px"} shows you which buttons or wheel on a mouse has been used, and which keyboard buttons pressed.  

Click on the ![save-icon]{: height="24px"} icon, check what will be saved, add a changeset comment (hashtag?) and then click on the ![upload]{: height="24px"} icon to save your changes to OpenStreetMap.  

### Saving or Uploading to OpenStreetMap - the details ###

Save your work regularly. Perhaps after tracing 6 buildings. This is especially important at a mapathon when lots of people are all working on the same thing at the same time.  

If you have been given a **#hashtag** to include in your work, the changeset comment shown in the image above is the place to put it. Also add a simple comment explaining what you have done at the end of the existing comments, for instance "**added a couple of buildings**".  

For more information about changeset comments see <https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Good_changeset_comments>  

Your edits will appear on <http://www.openstreetmap.org> within a few seconds.  

Although your changes are accepted by OpenStreetMap within a few seconds, some programmes, apps. and devices use a saved version of OpenStreetMap which may not be updated for some weeks or months.  

Tasking Manager - Finishing a square, or stopping work before the square is finished  
-------------------------------------------------------------------

When you think the square is finished, return to the Tasking Manager tab on your browser, add a comment & mark the square as complete. Do not copy the changeset comment with hashtags which you used when saving.  
![mark task as done]{: height="250px"}  

If you select;

- **Mark task as done** the square you were working on will turn yellow to show it is complete and awaiting validation.  
- **Stop Mapping** the square will return to it's white or pale grey colour to show it needs more work. It is very helpful if your comment lets the next mapper know what needs to be done, such as  
    - "There are more buildings to trace in the bottom right corner of the square, but I've run out of time"  

The whole Tasking Manager process only works if mappers mark squares as complete - even if you are very new and not sure, when you think it is complete, click on the **Mark task as done** button. The worst thing that can happen is that someone thinks there is a lot more to be done and invalidates your square. Most of us that have carried out a lot of mapping on the Task Manager have had at least one square invalidated. *Sometimes the mapper who invalidated a square is wrong - perhaps they should have just completed the few things that were needed. - We all miss something at some point.*  

OpenStreetMap has evolved because mappers are constantly improving the information. Sometimes new imagery becomes available making more detailed mapping possible, and sometimes a survey takes place and information is gained and added to the map.   

### Task Manager - sending a message to another Task Manager user ###
You can send a message from this box to another Tasking Manager user by using **@** followed by the username - for instance "Thanks for your work on this @Tallguy I noticed you were having problems with round buildings - this link may help http://learnosm.org/en/hot-tips/tracing-round-buildings/. Keep up the good work! Regards Nick"  

See also  
---------

[![OSM-TM-video]{: height="150px"}](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_feTGQXLf_M&list=PLb9506_-6FMHZ3nwn9heri3xjQKrSq1hN&index=9 "Humanitarian OpenStreetMap Team - Tasking Manager Tutorial Videos")  
*Subtitles available in some languages*  



[saving]:/images/hot-tips/saving.gif
[keymon]:/images/hot-tips/keymon.png
[mark task as done]:/images/hot-tips/mark-task-as-done.png
[save-icon]: /images/beginner/save-icon.png "Save icon"
[upload]: /images/beginner/upload.png "Upload"
[arrow-up]: /images/arrow-up.png
[OSM-TM-video]: /images/hot-tips/OSM-TM-video.png "Humanitarian OpenStreetMap Team - Tasking Manager Tutorial Videos"
