---
layout: doc
permalink: /en/contribute/style/
lang: en
title: Documentation Style Guide
category: contribute
nosearch: true
---

## Documentation Style Guide

Paste of data from hackpad mentioned in <https://github.com/hotosm/learnosm/issues/82>

Style Guidelines
=========================

This document provides a set of general guidelines for developing and editing new 
sections. The goal is to ensure sections are clear, consistent, and easy to read.

Note:  This guide is for the EN version and is not necessarily applicable to 
other languages.  Initial guidelines were based on Geoserver's Style Guide.

Content conventions
--------------------

### Be concise

Sections should be concise and not just a brain dump. Reference material 
should contain short pages and be easy to refer to without having to scroll 
through a large volume of text. 

### Avoid marketing

If the point of the document is to showcase a new feature it does not belong 
in the documentation. Write an article or a blog post about it. If it is necessary 
to point out a technical benefit of a feature then do so from a technical standpoint.

*Bad:* <font color="firebrick">Super-overlays are a great way to publish super cool datasets awesomely in Google Earth!</font>

*Good:* <font color="darkgreen">Super-overlays allow you to efficiently publish data via Google Earth.</font>

### Be professional

Avoid the use of slang or other “colorful” language. The aim  is to be informative, 
not to keep the reader amused. Avoiding slang helps keep the document accessible to as large an audience as possible.

*Bad:* <font color="firebrick">Next, fire up whatever tool you use to browse the web and point it in the direction of ...</font>

*Good:* <font color="darkgreen">Next, start your web browser and navigate to ...</font>
    
### Avoid contractions

We can never be sure the level of comfort with a language a reader has, contractions increase the difficulty for non native speakers or readers of a language

*Bad:* <font color="firebrick">We've, you're, don't</font>

*Good:* <font color="darkgreen">We have, you are, do not</font>



### Use direct commands

When providing step-by-step instructions, use direct commands or requests. Avoid 
the use of “we” and “let’s”.

*Bad:* <font color="firebrick">Now let’s add a shapefile by ...</font>

*Good:* <font color="darkgreen">Add a shapefile by ...</font>

     received as feedback:

    do not use "In this chapter we will"


Naming conventions
-------------------------------

### Capitalization of page names

Each word in the page name should be capitalized except for articles (such as “the”, “a”, “an”) and conjunctions (such as “and”, “but”, “or”). A page name should never start with an article.

*Bad:* <font color="firebrick">Adding a shapefile or postgis table</font>

*Good:* <font color="darkgreen">Adding a Shapefile or PostGIS Table</font>

*Bad:* <font color="firebrick">The Shapefile Tutorial</font>

*Good:* <font color="darkgreen">Shapefile Tutorial</font>

### Capitalization of section names

Do not capitalize second and subsequent words unless the title is almost always 
capitalized in English (like proper names). Thus, capitalize John Wayne and Art 
Nouveau, but not Video Games.

*Bad:* <font color="firebrick">Creating a New Datastore</font>

*Good:* <font color="darkgreen">Creating a new datastore</font>

#### Verb usage

It is recommended that the gerund (the -ing form in English) be used unless there 
is a more common noun form. For example, an article on swimming is better than one 
on swim.

*Bad:* <font color="firebrick">Create a new datastore</font>

*Good:* <font color="darkgreen">Creating a new datastore</font>

### Avoid plurals

Create page titles that are in the singular. Exceptions to this are nouns that are 
always plural (scissors, trousers), a small class that requires a plural (polar 
coordinates, Bantu languages, The Beatles).

*Bad:* <font color="firebrick">Templates tutorial</font>

*Good:* <font color="darkgreen">Template tutorial</font>

GUI convention
-----------------------------------
The GUI convention styles are intended to mimic the appearance of the GUI. In 
general, the objective is to use the non-hover appearance, so a user can 
visually scan the GUI to find something that looks like the instruction in 
the manual.

* Menu and toolbar commands are shown as bold letters and (if available) 
  preceded by an icon image, for example, **File** `image`.

* A series of commands are written with `>`. 
  For example: **File** > **New Project**.

* Keystroke combinations are shown as `Ctrl+B`, which means press and hold 
  the `Ctrl` key and then press the `B` key.

* Code or variables are indicated by a fixed-width font, for example:

          some commands or variables here


* Note, Text within this box indicates a tip, suggestion, warning or caution.

* Indicate in the instructions if the GUI is platform specific (Windows, Linux or Mac).

Formatting
------------------

Refer to Markdown post guidelines. 

https://github.com/hotosm/learnosm/wiki/Markdown-post-guidelines

http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax


Attribution of images and screen-shots
--------------------------------------------------------------
Not sure how: <https://github.com/hotosm/learnosm/issues/198>

Outline of module/topic sections
-------------------------------------------------------------

    Overview - discuss what briefly what this section is about and the expected outcome

    Detailed steps

    Summary


Illustrations and Images
----------------------------------

### Labeling images

Images should be labeled with numbers and arrows pointing to the specific parts of the image the number references. Below the image the numbers should be repeated with the textual description of what the arrow is pointing to in the image. Text labels or descriptions should never be part of the image itself. This is done so image label translations are easier and it is less likely a new image will have to be generated for every language, although that might still be required if the interface in the image needs to be in the local language.

References
==============
 * GNOME Style Guide - <https://developer.gnome.org/gdp-style-guide/stable/>
 * Geoserver Style Guide - <http://docs.geoserver.org/latest/en/docguide/style.html>
 * Documenting Python - <http://docs.python.org/devguide/documenting.html>
 * GH Issue on the topic - <https://github.com/hotosm/learnosm/issues/82>
